# Notamento_S_Sebastiano_TEI.xml
A first encoding of the historical source “Notamento cavato dalli Instrumenti e Privilegii che si conservano nell'Archivio del monasterio di S. Sebastiano di Napoli".

I thought of a quadripartite structure that includes, in addition to the obvious `<teiHeader>`, a `<standOff>`, `<facsimile>` and `<text>`.
Regarding the `<teiHeader>`, I have attempted to include as much information as possible from my current possession concerning the historical source. I have therefore paid particular attention to the `<sourceDesc>` element. Here, I have indicated the identification details of the manuscript in question in `<msIdentifier>`. In `<msItem>` I specified the content of the manuscript: it is in fact composed of three separate sections, the object of study (and encoding) is only the last one, that relating to the Notamento, to which I attributed the @xml:id="Not_Seb", which I then referred to in `<text corresp="#Not_Seb">`.
Regarding the `<teiHeader>`, I have attempted to include as much information as possible from my current possession concerning the historical source. I have therefore paid particular attention to the `<sourceDesc>` element. Here, I have indicated the identification details of the manuscript in question in `<msIdentifier>`. In `<msItem>` I specified the content of the manuscript: it is in fact composed of three separate sections, the object of study (and encoding) is only the last one, that relating to the Notamento, to which I attributed the @xml:id="Not_Seb", which I then referred to in `<text corresp="#Not_Seb">`.
The `<physDesc>` is unfortunately not fully compiled because I could only enter the information already in my possession here in Graz: for a more detailed physical description of the object, it will be necessary to go to the archive. I have also tried to briefly trace some of the most important passages in the history of the manuscript through the use of the `<history>` element.
Subsequent to the `<fileDesc>`, I provided a `<profileDesc>` to enrich the description of the object to be encoded with some information that I considered useful for a better understanding of the source: I specified the context of creation by the use of `<creation>`, added a small abstract in English in `<abstract>` and specified the language used in the historical source with `<langUsage>`. A further piece of information was provided by the use of the `<calendar>` element: it seemed appropriate to specify that in the source, while referring to the common Gregorian calendar, a different system of chronological dating based on 15-year cycles is used.
I concluded the teiHeader with `<encodingDesc>`. Here I first specified the purpose of the encoding (not the encoding of the whole source but only of those regests contained in the Item with @xml:id="Not_Seb" and relating to charters published up to 1199) in `<projectDesc>`. I thought it appropriate to use the `<samplingDecl>` item since this project only includes the encoding of the earliest regests, for a total of 13.
I then attempted to summarise in `<editorialDecl>` and with the nested `<normalisation>` element, the normalisation works I had carried out in the transcription of the source. I thought it appropriate to divide these into more `<p>`, given the different nature of the normalisation works: by doing so, I was able to specify the normalisations made in the transcribed text (`<text>`) and the decisions made in compiling the standOff. I concluded with the `<stdVals>` element, thanks to which I was able to specify the use of different attributes for the `<date>` element, trying on the one hand to respect the original dating method present in the historical source, and on the other hand to trace these dates back to normalised dates, so as to facilitate an eventual analysis of the historical source.

With the <facsimile> element, I was able to associate images (in .jpeg format) with the transcription. Given the nature of the source, which is a collection of abstracts independent of each other and not an organic text, I thought it appropriate to subdivide each `<surface>` into several `<zones>` so that each zone could be linked to its transcription. To achieve this, I considered using the @start attribute and the @xml:id that I assigned to each abstract (N1, N2, N3, etc.) and to the `<pb>` (for those cases where the start of a new page does not correspond to the start of an abstract).

The largest part of the encoding is the `<standOff>` element. Here I wanted to use the elements: `<listOrg>`, `<listPerson>`, `<listPlace>`, `<listRelation>`, `<listEvent>`. The normalisations I did in the compilation of these lists were explained in the TEIHeader.
With `<listOrg>` I wanted to group all the organisations present, distinguishing their type with the @type attribute.
In `<listPerson>` I tried to group and distinguish the various personalities acting in the deeds. Unfortunately, many – if not all – of them are anonymous, so it was not possible for the moment to enrich each `<person>` with further information; I did compile a `<listRelation>` that could clarify the relationships between the persons, taking care to specify through the @source attribute the source of that information.
The use of `<listPlace>` was intended to provide more information about places (toponyms and micro-toponyms mentioned). When possible, a geolocation reference of the places was provided when I was certain of their correspondence with modern places.
`<listEvent>`, on the other hand, consists of summaries of what is expressed in the individual regests in `<text>`. Although it does not add any information to what is already indicated in the registers, I thought it might be useful in prevision of historical research on this source, to provide English summaries of the contents of the regests, with appropriate references to people, lands, places.

As for the `<text>`, there is little to add. I divided the various records into `<p>` to which I attributed an @xml:id and an @n corresponding to the identification number of each record (encoded in the text with the `<idno>` element). In general, I tried to encode all the information that could be obtained from the regests by the use of `<persName>`, `<placeName>`, `<orgName>` (linked to the standOff), `<date>`. In addition, I have also used the `<fw>` element on two occasions, in order to provide maximum fidelity to the source.
